CANONICAL PUBLICATION INTAKE — BUILD-SOURCE CONTRACT
Scope: requirements.txt P01–P04, M01–M05, AT03–AT05.
Status: navigation/discovery released under Paul’s explicit commit/push approval.
Initial public package: 0cb86d6 (37 files).
Current production: 2a99f11225049eb6f8bb35cf6577532a004bc10f, including heading-spacing
and first-Escape corrections identified in live browser inspection.
Build-source destination: source/canonical-publishing; production branch: main.
No future authored publication is approved by this technical release.

AUTHORITY
Paul's current instructions and PublishingWorkflow_v2026-09-23.txt govern the
authored words, provenance, review, companion video, and release gates. This file
documents only website ingestion. It does not replace that publishing workflow.
The workflow's recorded v18.2 state is historical; the inspected baseline is v19.2
at 8f6c9425632ae29327d3104c571478cd5bb5e915.

ONE SOURCE, ONE BUILD
Maintain one canonical HTML file for a newly approved artifact. Its title, exact
description, author, dates, approval reference, type, and relationships belong in
that file alongside the visible work. Do not separately edit the catalog, search
index, library, sitemap, feed, or file hashes.

From the authoring repository:
  python scripts/build-corpus.py
  python scripts/check-corpus.py

The build adds shared navigation outside the original reading blocks, then derives:
  library/index.html                  Static links and enhanced full-text search
  publication/catalog.json            Canonical metadata and existing relationships
  publication/search-index.json       Exact searchable source text
  sitemap.xml                         Actual eligible page URLs
  feed.xml                            Source publication/revision events
  publication/manifest.json           Existing source records and current hashes

The catalog has pages, homepage sections with existing IDs, and source downloads
derived from sources/index.html. It does not infer philosophical relationships
from adjacency. The generated library is a view, not a new authored publication.
Search text is normalized for whitespace; it is not rewritten or summarized.

NEW ARTIFACT CONTRACT
One HTML file must supply:
  - One self-canonical HTTPS URL matching its actual file route.
  - A visible h1 matching its JSON-LD name exactly.
  - meta name="author", matching the JSON-LD author or referenced Person name.
  - meta name="description", using an exact sentence in the visible work.
  - meta name="gl-status" content="approved" (or "published" only after release).
  - meta name="gl-approval", referencing Paul's real approval of that exact work.
  - meta name="gl-type", choosing the actual artifact type.
  - JSON-LD WebPage, Article, ScholarlyArticle, CreativeWork, or VideoObject with
    its canonical url, name, author, datePublished, and dateModified.
  - Actual publication and revision event timestamps with timezone. Do not use
    the current build time as a substitute. Composition dates are distinct.
  - Source citations and relationship links where supplied and approved.

Supported gl-type labels: article, video, transcript, definition, principle, quote,
thought, demonstration, test, research, visualization, presentation, treatise,
business, product, service, page, concept. These are format labels, not new content
hierarchies or a claim that works of every type already exist.

Dates may be declared directly in JSON-LD. If gl-date-published/gl-date-modified
metadata is also supplied, it must agree. Optional gl-version records a content
version. Use visible authorship, dates and source references as appropriate to the
work; keep machine representations consistent with those visible facts.

New files without approval status, or with draft status, are excluded. Approved
files with missing author/date/type/approval/canonical metadata fail with a specific
error. The eleven previously published HTML routes are explicitly grandfathered
without inventing missing historical metadata. No new route receives that exception.

DRAFT-SAFE PACKAGING
Excluding a draft from an index does not make a public repository private. Never
push private working drafts to this public GitHub repository, even on a branch.
Never deploy the entire authoring directory. Use a fresh, empty staging directory
outside the repository:
  python scripts/build-corpus.py --stage ../governedlogic-public-candidate

Only this staged package may be used as deployment input after explicit
authorization. The released navigation/discovery revision used that boundary. It contains approved/legacy HTML, generated discovery, directly
referenced files, production scripts/styles, CNAME, robots.txt, and the previously
published assets/source editions. It excludes unapproved HTML, unreferenced new
assets, scripts, tests, requirements, drafts, and workflow notes. A public link to
unapproved HTML causes staging to fail. A nonempty staging target is rejected to
prevent old files surviving into a later package.

The current production configuration is NOT wired to this command. Read-only
GitHub inspection confirmed run 35931181829 uses the dynamic Pages workflow on
main, actions/jekyll-build-pages with source "." and destination "./_site", then
uploads and deploys that artifact. No repository-authored workflow exists in the
inspected 29-file baseline. Therefore a raw push of the authoring tree to main
would bypass the staging boundary. At an authorized release, deploy the staged
bytes through the existing publishing branch, or explicitly configure an Actions
artifact workflow using this stage. The authorized navigation/discovery release
copied only the 37 staged public files to main; build scripts and requirements
belong on source/canonical-publishing. Do not merge that whole source branch into
main. No automatic build/deploy workflow was installed by this implementation.
Verify the staging boundary again before each authorized deployment.

REPRODUCIBILITY AND RELEASE EVENTS
  python scripts/build-corpus.py --check
This is read-only and fails if generated bytes or navigation includes are stale.

The four new navigation/library JS and CSS references carry ?v=<content hash>,
derived deterministically from their bytes in the active source root. Rebuilding
after an asset change refreshes these URLs and dependent file hashes, so old
browser/CDN cache entries do not mask a released correction. Unchanged assets keep
their URLs. Original approved animation and style references remain unchanged.
After deployment, verify the versioned URLs and the actual corrected interaction.

Legacy publication dates, revision dates, content versions, and feed event times
remain unchanged by presentation builds. The v1 canonical-text hash algorithm is
preserved. Exact HTML hashes include the new navigation assets/fallback links.
Historical architecture, source selections, and documentary manifest fields are
retained; they are not newly authored by the generator. Discovery now records
releaseChannel=production. This label identifies its release channel, not evidence
of crawling, indexing, training inclusion, or propagation.

Release assertions must remain tied to actual authorization and deployment
evidence. The current deployed revision is identified above; existing v19.2
content dates and historical source editions remain unchanged. Build time must
never replace a publication or substantive-revision event.

CHECKS IMPLEMENTED
check-corpus.py checks deterministic output, canonical routes, duplicate IDs,
local asset links and fragments, JSON-LD parsing and metadata agreement, generated
catalog/search correspondence, source and HTML hashes, and isolated intake tests.
The intake test adds one approved HTML fixture, verifies all generated views,
excludes a draft and an unreferenced asset from the deployment package, detects
missing metadata and canonical mismatch, then removes the fixture and verifies
that all generated bytes return exactly to baseline. Fixtures live only in a
temporary copy; they are never actual publications.

INHERITED METADATA HOLDS
mechanism.html has different HTML and JSON-LD descriptions; its HTML description
is not an exact visible passage. publication/index.html also has a description
absent from its visible main content. These existing descriptions remain unchanged
pending semantic authorization. Discovery omits those excerpts. All other checks
do not turn these recorded legacy mismatches into newly invented prose.

LIMITS OF THIS CHECK
These commands do not check external network targets or claim browser layout,
screen-reader, mobile hardware, or sensor verification. Live desktop browser
inspection was performed for the authorized release, including corrections to
heading spacing and first-Escape behavior. Rendered mobile layouts and physical
phone/tablet interaction remain explicit acceptance gates. The scripts themselves
never send communications, create calendar events, conduct model experiments,
or deploy the site.
